F3: Draft release notes skill (#10780)
beyondessential/tamanu: .agents/skills/draft-release-notes/SKILL.md

---
name: draft-release-notes
description: >-
  Draft public Tamanu release notes for a given version. Use when the user wants release notes, a

>   changelog, or "what's in vX.YY" for a Tamanu release (e.g. "draft release notes for v2.45"). Pulls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Draft public Tamanu release notes for a given version. Use when the user wants release notes for a Tamanu release (e.g. "draft release notes for v2.45"). Pulls
```
Would suggest it shouldn't do this much work when someone asks "what's in vX.YY", instead it should look for release notes matching that version and deliver them verbatim, or do a lighter weight overview based on code changes if those aren't available.

>   work from two sources — Linear issues on the Tamanu team labelled with the version, and the committed

Reviewer: Should use Workhorse MCP as well as Linear

Author: I had told to fallback to the committed specs if not in linear which I assume could come from either linear or workhorse? But maybe that wasn't a good assumption or maybe difficult to track version...

  specs that landed in that version's release/X.Y branch — reconciles them (committed specs are
  authoritative), and writes docs/releasenotes/vX.YY.md in the canonical v2.44 format for project
  managers and system administrators. Not for developer changelogs or QA test scoping (use
  scope-tamanu-release-tests for the latter).
label: "Draft release notes"
---

# Draft release notes

> Produce **public release notes** for one Tamanu version and write them to `docs/releasenotes/vX.YY.md`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Produce **public release notes** for one Tamanu version and write them to `docs/release-notes/vX.YY.md`.
```
The casing types we use are a mix of `camelCase`, `kebab-case`, and `snake_case` - rare for us to use just a squished word like this. Choose one for the folder name and rename everywhere in this PR

Author: Okay cool - thanks that's good to know for future.

The audience is **project managers and system administrators**, not developers. They read these notes to understand what new capabilities their teams gain, what workflows change, what configuration is required, and what to prepare and test before upgrading. Write to that audience throughout: user-facing capabilities and benefits, not implementation detail.

> The canonical format is the published **v2.44** notes, kept alongside this skill at `example-v2.44.md`. Read it first — it is the reference for section order, headings, emoji markers, voice, and how much detail each section carries. A new draft should be indistinguishable in shape from that example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The canonical format is the published **v2.44** notes, kept alongside this skill at `example-v2.44.md`. Read it first — it is the reference for section order, headings, emoji markers, voice, and how much detail each section carries.
```
Feels a bit strong in terms of guidance to an agent, otherwise they tend to get stuck on things like "oh I should always say that it's a particularly big release as the first line"

## Input

The user specifies the **version** (e.g. `v2.45`, or `2.45`). Normalise it to:

- **Release branch** `release/2.45`

> - **Output file** `docs/releasenotes/v2.45.md`

Reviewer: Will naming the files with a . in the name cause us any issues down the track?

> - **Linear version label** — the label for that version (often `v2.45.0`); confirm the exact label against the Tamanu team's labels rather than assuming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Linear version label** — the label for that version (often `v2.45.0`); confirm the exact label against the Tamanu team's labels rather than assuming. Note also that Linear version labels may drift, so ground in what code was shipped rather than blindly assuming Linear is correct.
```

Ask for the **release date** if the user hasn't given it. Format it `DD-MM-YYYY` in the header. If it's genuinely not known yet, leave `Released [RELEASE_DATE_PLACEHOLDER]`.

## Sourcing: two places to look

Work included in a version comes from **both** of these. Gather from each, then reconcile.

> ### 1. Linear — the Tamanu team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Issue Tracker (Linear - the Tamanu team, and/or Workhorse - the Tamanu workspace)
```
Etc. throughout

Pull issues that meet **all** of:

- On the **Tamanu** team.
- Labelled with the version (e.g. `v2.45.0`).
- **Completed.** A version label records intent to ship, not the outcome — an issue can carry the label while still in progress, or after being cancelled or bumped to a later release. Include only issues whose status type is `completed`, and drop anything cancelled. Never describe work that didn't land.

**Filter issues directly by the label string** (list issues with `team: Tamanu`, `label: v2.45.0`). The label-search tool is unreliable for version labels — don't depend on it to confirm the label exists; instead read the labels on a returned issue to confirm the exact spelling for that version.

> Filtering to the Tamanu team already excludes DataTrak, Tupaia, and other non-Tamanu product work — they live on separate teams. If you surface an issue that is clearly one of those, drop it.

Reviewer: Some of this will need to be edited to clarify which parts are relevant for reading from Linear vs. Workhorse

**Exclude internal / non-user-facing work.** Developer-only issues — E2E or test changes, build tooling, dependency bumps, internal readmes and developer docs — do not belong in public release notes. Judge by whether a project manager or administrator would notice the change; if not, leave it out.

A completed issue whose status is **"Complete: Docs Required"** is explicitly flagged as awaiting release-notes coverage — treat that as a strong signal it belongs in the notes.

Use each issue's title, description, and comments for the human-readable framing of a feature — what it is and why it matters to a user.

> ### 2. Workhorse — specs that landed in the release branch

Reviewer: Ah ok, so this part I wouldn't call Workhorse, as we may use other tools to develop specs. It's more like the actual changes in the repo, the location it's pulling from for this is the repo not Workhorse

```suggestion
### 2. Specs and code that landed in the release branch
```

> A Workhorse card is part of a version when it **landed in that version's `release/2.xx` branch**. The committed specs are the content source for that work — read the specs, not card titles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Find the spec delta for the version with git:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start with the primary source of information: the specs that landed in this release. After that, follow the same process described below with all folders outside of specs, to ground claims and dive into missing detail, but use the specs as the primary source of information as we would want it understood in release notes.

Find the spec delta for the version with git:
```

```

**Use the three-dot form.** Two dots compares the two branch tips directly, and Tamanu keeps servicing older release branches after a newer one is cut. A spec **edited** on `release/2.44` post-cut then shows as `M` against `release/2.45`, so the previous version's hotfix work gets read as this version's; the diff is also reversed, describing the change backwards. A spec **added** on `release/2.44` post-cut shows as `D`, which is merely ignored. Three dots diffs from the merge base, giving exactly what landed on this line since it diverged.

Fetch each branch in its own command: a single `git fetch` naming both refs fails atomically if one doesn't exist yet, which is precisely the uncut-branch case below.

Added (`A`) and modified (`M`) files under `specs/` are the work that landed in this version. Read each changed spec to understand the behaviour. Use `git log` on a spec path to recover the Linear card and PR that introduced it (two dots is correct here — `git log` takes a real commit range):

```
git log --oneline origin/release/2.44..origin/release/2.45 -- specs/administration/settings/secret-encryption.md

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Technical detail that Claude already knows full well how to do, so no need to use up prompt space on it

Notes on refs:

- **Derive the previous release line from the branch list, don't assume it's `X.(YY-1)`.** List what actually exists and take the highest release branch below the target, so a skipped or unshipped minor can't send you to a branch that was never released:

  ```
  git branch -r --list 'origin/release/2.*' --sort=version:refname
  ```

  Confirm the line shipped by checking it has tags (`git tag --list 'v2.44.*'`). Compare against that branch so the delta is exactly this version's work, not an accumulation. State which refs you used.
- If `release/2.45` **hasn't been cut yet**, the work is still on `main` — use `origin/release/2.44...origin/main` instead, and say so. This is an upper-bound-free view: `main` may already carry work destined for a later version, so check each spec's introducing commit and drop anything that isn't part of the version being written up.

> - `git fetch` does not create local branches — reference fetched branches as `origin/release/2.45`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Reconciling the two sources

> The same piece of work often appears in both places — a spec-driven card usually originates from a Linear issue. Match them on the **Linear card id** (the spec's introducing commits reference it; the Linear issues carry it).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same piece of work often appears in both places — a spec-driven card usually originates from an issue in a tracker.
```

You cannot generate real Slab URLs. Wherever the format expects a Supporting documentation link, leave a labelled placeholder for a human to fill:

```
**Supporting documentation**

- Feature overview - [SLAB_LINK_PLACEHOLDER]
- Configuration guide - [SLAB_LINK_PLACEHOLDER]
- User manual - [SLAB_LINK_PLACEHOLDER]
```

Keep the descriptive label before each placeholder so the person filling them in knows which document goes where.

## Voice and conventions

- **PM/admin audience.** Explain what a feature does, why it's useful, and how it fits a workflow. Leave out API specifics, database schemas, and internal architecture.
- **Benefits over mechanics.** "The system automatically removes conflicting location assignments" — not how it's implemented.
- **Australian/NZ English** — finalise, colour, organise, centralise, authorised.
- **Concise.** Match the example's density: a tight overview paragraph, then scannable bullets. No filler.

## Workflow

1. Resolve the version to its release branch, output path, and Linear label. Get the release date, or use the placeholder.
2. Read `example-v2.44.md` for the target shape.
3. Pull the Linear Tamanu-team issues for the version.

> 4. [parallel with 3] Fetch the release branches and diff `specs/` to get the landed specs; read them; recover their cards/PRs from git log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. [parallel with 3] Fetch the release branches and diff `specs/` to get the landed specs; read them; ground and deepen using code changes as required; recover their cards/PRs from git log.
```

Reviewer 2: Declining: overlapping pending-status tags are not the #2198 defect. Fullwidth question-mark and non-English follow-up detection are the contract this PR ships.
